In this segment, I will give a brief
introduction to the task of the part of
speech taking, and then we will come back
and see how discriminative sequence models
can be used as a technique for
the part of speech taking.
There are many linguistic traditions
in different parts of the globe
that in the West, the idea of parts of
speech have started with Aristotle in
the 4th century before the common era.
And he suggested the idea that there were
parts of speech which are otherwise known
as lexical categories, word classes,
tags or POS is a common abbreviation.
But what we think of today is the parts
of speech are normally attributed to
Dionysius Thrax of Alexandria.
We propose that there
are 8 parts of speech and
that's the number that's
still with us today.
It's the number of parts of speech
people get taught, in school sometime.
They're actually, if you look into
the details a little, the 8 parts
of speech that Dionysius Thrax proposed
aren't the same that are with us today.
So the normal list that people are taught
in schools in English now, noun,
verb, adjective, adverb, preposition,
conjunction, pronoun, interjection,
but for Thrax there was actually some
little differences in the list, and
of course, he was working with
ancient Greek and not with English.
So the beginning of the list starts
out the same but note that he doesn't
recognized adjective as a part of speech,
and Greek and Latin adjectives and
nouns behave very similarly, but he does
recognize participle as a part of speech.
And then, the other difference is that
a separate part of speech is given for
articles.
Words like the and a, where as in
the modern list you get a class for
interjections.
The status of the articles has
always been a bit controversial.
In our current standard set
of eight parts of speech,
articles are seen as a case of adjectives,
but actually as you start looking at
the grammar of languages like English
that the articles have a very
special behavior which is quite
different from regular adjectives.
For example, adjectives,
you can get multiple of large
green letter couch, whereas you can't
do things like, the artist book
Except as a kind of speech hesitation as
to which article you should be using.
When we do part of speech taking
in computational linguistics,
we normally work with rather more
than eight parts of speech because
there are a lot of distinctions
which can be useful to make that
multiplies the number of parts of speech.
And so, I start to indicate the kinds of
parts of speech you get in this slide and
you can see that there are various
hierarchical groupings.
So inside nouns we can divide into
proper nouns and common nouns and
we might also want to
divide between singular and
plural which can happen with
both proper and common nouns.
Verbs, very much divide into main verbs,
see, registered,
versus various exhilarant,
modal verbs like can and had.
There are adjectives and adverbs.
Note that adjectives, or at least
the short adjectives in English have
several forms, the positive,
comparative and superlative.
And we might want to distinguish
those forms, as well.
Neither of the lists on the last slide
had numbers, but they seem a fairly
obvious and practically useful
part of speech to recognize.
And then, similarly here,
among the closed classes,
I'll say bit more about closed
classes on the next slide.
We don't have a category
that's called articles,
we have a category called determinants.
So the modern linguistic tradition
is to group the articles up and
the together with certain other
demonstratives that behave similarly.
Words like some, this.
And then, we have some other categories.
Prepositions are familiar but we're
distinguishing off the class of particles.
So the particles here are words that
are normally the same as prepositions
that take part in English
phrasal verb constructions.
Things like made up, meaning to invent.
The top level distinction on the last
slide was between open classes and
closed classes.
It's very clear that not all
parts of speech are the same.
Some of them, like determiners and
pronouns, are occupied by
only a small set of words.
So in English, for pronouns,
there's, he, she, it, him, who and
the first and
second person pronouns I, you, we.
The person plural they, them but it just
a very small set of words and they aren't
new new pronouns being invented and so
things like that we call closed class.
Because in general,
closed classes don't get new members,
though sometimes occasionally they
do over long term language change,
so sometimes people have suggested
that we should be inventing some new
gender neutral pronouns in English
though nothing's really taking off.
But in contrast the open classes,
nouns, verbs, adjectives,
adverbs, these are classes which
have a vast number of members.
And beyond that it's very easy for
them to gain new members.
So that when we have a new protocol in
computer science we create a new noun for
it, like SSH, and then very quickly we
decide it's useful to use that as a verb
as well, and then we say, I SSHd into
my server to fix the configuration.
The task of part of speech
taking is to say for
each word what its part of speech is
in the context of some running text.
The reason why that's not trivial is
because lots of words have more than
one part of speech so,
for example, for the word,
back, it can be an adjective, but
it's modifying a noun, like the back door.
Or it can be a noun when it's referring
to the body part, on my back.
It can be an adverb in a phrase like,
win the voters back.
And it can also then be a verb.
In another political example,
promised to back the bill.
And so, what we're wanting to do is when
we see an instance of the word back,
assign it to one of these parts of speech.
So in the task of part of speech tagging,
we start with some text.
Plays well with others.
And then, for each word, we consider
what are its possible parts of speech so
that plays can be a plural noun or
verb, well,
it can be an interjection,
an adjective, a noun, or an adverb.
With can be is just a preposition here.
And others is a plural noun.
And so, for the words that are ambiguous,
we then going to choose for
them what their correct part
of speech is in context.
And so here, plays is a verb, and
well as in adverb modifying place.
And we get this ambiguating
this part of speech.
So what we're finding here at the end
when we've got here, these choices
here which we then determining,
these are part of speech tags.
And depending on the part of
speech tag set that commonly,
a natural language processing
application somewhere between 12 and
100 part of speech tags
that are differentiated.
And so, you can see that this set of
part of speech tags is differentiating
things like is it a plural noun or
a singular noun.
Here's a singular noun.
Or if it is a verb,
what form of the verb it is.
So this is the third person
singular plays, as opposed to play.
So the particular part of speech tag set
that we've seen here is the Penn Treebank
part of speech tags, which are the most
commonly used part of speech tags for
English, especially in the United States.
I'm embarrassed to say that I've
been in this business long enough
that I can actually tell you off my hand
what all the Penn part of speech takes.
There's a set of 45 of them which cover
word classes like this and punctuation.
So what could this part of speech taking
as well as letting you answer
your highschool English problems?
It has a variety of other uses.
It has some particular uses by just
part of speech as sufficient, so
that if you're doing text to speech, and
you see an instance of the word L-E-A-D,
you want to know whether to
pronounce it as lead or lead.
And the answer to that is, well,
what's its part of speech?
If it's a verb, it's lead.
If it's a noun, it's lead.
Having parts of speech lets you easily
do some sofa linguistic analysis.
So for lots of applications it's useful to
pick out what we call base noun phrases.
So there, noun or
noun compound possibly modified in front
by a determiner in symmetric terms.
So the nearest school or
an old green couch are base noun
phrases whereas big complex noun phrases
with relative clauses after them aren't.
If we have parts of speech, we can easily
write regular expressions that pick out
things like base noun phrases or verbs
followed by a particle for phrasal verbs.
And that can be used for a lot of
applications where you want to do shallow
processing, but
nevertheless want to be able to put
to give to the user multiwords keywords,
or something like that.
Part of speech taking is commonly use
as input to, or to speed up a parser,
so quite a few parsers work on
already part of speech texts,
and even ones that can do their
own part of speech taking,
can often be split up by first doing
the process of part of speech tagging.
And finally, a lot of models we build for
probability estimation are very sparse
if they try to work at the word level.
And we discussed various ways of
backing off where you might back
off from a tri-gram or bi-gram earlier.
But another common way of backing
off is to back off from a word that
you don't know much about to
its part of speech category,
you can predict by still
knowing it's an adjective.
Part of speech tagging performance
is normally measured as accuracy.
What percent of tags do you get right?
And the answer for that,
that for the best current taggers
they get about 97% of words right.
That sounds really good, it is important
to realize that part of speech
taking is in some sense an easy task or at
least a task where you get high numbers.
So there's a baseline approach to
part of speech taking where you tag
every word with this most common tag if
you know about in your training data and
if you don't know about in your training
data you take it as a noun, and it turns
out to that fairly simple baseline method
already gets your performance of 90%.
And so, it turns out that you get this
high baseline for a couple of reasons.
One reason is that many
words are unambiguous,
that if you see famous,
it's always an adjective.
And also the way part of speech
tagging is normally measured,
that you get points for every token.
So not only do you get points for
every instance of unambiguous articles
which are very common like that in art.
You even get points for getting the part
of speech tags and punctuation right.
But that doesn't mean that all
parts of speech decisions are easy.
Some part of speech decisions are quite
difficult even for human beings.
And so,
here some examples of the word around, so
here we have around acting
as a pathecal go around to,
here we have around against
straight after verb that is
time is its prepositional
phrase around the corner and so
around it's being a preposition.
And here, again, in this third example,
around is again following straight
after a verb, but actually this time
it's a modifier of this noun phrase
of around 250, short for around $250.
And so, around is then an adverb.
It's modifying a number which
is kind of like an adjective.
It turns out that in English
corpus around 11% of
the word types are ambiguous
with regard to part of speech.
That doesn't sound like very many.
But most of them tend to be common words.
Such as the word that.
So that can be a word that
introduces a subordinate clause.
And in the Penn Treebank those words
are tagged as I-N preposition,
which might surprise you.
There's some linguistic
argument about that.
It can be a determiner that play or
it can be an adverb so modifying here far.
That far is an adverb.
And so, it turns out that although only
11% of the word types are ambiguous in
the part of speech, about 40% of
the word tokens are ambiguous,
so there actually are a lot of decisions
for part of speech taker to make.
I hope that's given you a bit of
background information on part of speech
taking so you can make sense of the task
in terms of our methods for approaching it